Yet so vain is man, and so blinded by his vanity, that nowriter, up to the very end of the nineteenth century, expressed anyidea that intelligent life might have developed there far, or indeedat all, beyond its earthly level. |
Nor was it generally understoodthat since Mars is older than our earth, with scarcely a quarter ofthe superficial area and remoter from the sun, it necessarily followsthat it is not only more distant from life's beginning but nearer itsend. |
The secular cooling that must someday overtake our planet hasalready gone far indeed with our neighbour. |
Its physical conditionis still largely a mystery, but we know now that even in itsequatorial region the midday temperature barely approaches that ofour coldest winter. |
Its air is much more attenuated than ours, itsoceans have shrunk until they cover but a third of its surface, andas its slow seasons change huge snowcaps gather and melt about eitherpole and periodically inundate its temperate zones. |
That last stageof exhaustion, which to us is still incredibly remote, has become apresent-day problem for the inhabitants of Mars. |
The immediatepressure of necessity has brightened their intellects, enlarged theirpowers, and hardened their hearts. |
And looking across space withinstruments, and intelligences such as we have scarcely dreamed of,they see, at its nearest distance only 35,000,000 of miles sunward ofthem, a morning star of hope, our own warmer planet, green withvegetation and grey with water, with a cloudy atmosphere eloquent offertility, with glimpses through its drifting cloud wisps of broadstretches of populous country and narrow, navy-crowded seas. |
And we men, the creatures who inhabit this earth, must be tothem at least as alien and lowly as are the monkeys and lemurs to us. |
The intellectual side of man already admits that life is an incessantstruggle for existence, and it would seem that this too is the beliefof the minds upon Mars. |
Their world is far gone in its cooling andthis world is still crowded with life, but crowded only with whatthey regard as inferior animals. |
To carry warfare sunward is,indeed, their only escape from the destruction that, generation aftergeneration, creeps upon them. |
And before we judge of them too harshly we must remember whatruthless and utter destruction our own species has wrought, not onlyupon animals, such as the vanished bison and the dodo, but upon itsinferior races. |
The Tasmanians, in spite of their human likeness,were entirely swept out of existence in a war of extermination wagedby European immigrants, in the space of fifty years. |
Are we suchapostles of mercy as to complain if the Martians warred in the samespirit? The Martians seem to have calculated their descent with amazingsubtlety--their mathematical learning is evidently far in excess ofours--and to have carried out their preparations with a well-nighperfect unanimity. |
Had our instruments permitted it, we might haveseen the gathering trouble far back in the nineteenth century. |
Menlike Schiaparelli watched the red planet--it is odd, by-the-bye, thatfor countless centuries Mars has been the star of war--but failed tointerpret the fluctuating appearances of the markings they mapped sowell. |
All that time the Martians; must have been getting ready. |
During the opposition of 1894 a great light was seen on theilluminated part of the disk, first at the Lick Observatory, then byPerrotin of Nice, and then by other observers. |
English readers heardof it first in the issue of Nature dated August 2. |
I am inclined tothink that this have been the casting of the huge gun, in the vastpit sunk into their planet, from which their shots were fired at us. |
Peculiar markings, as yet unexplained, were seen near the site ofthat outbreak during the next two oppositions. |
The storm burst upon us six years ago now. |
As Mars approachedopposition, Lavelle of Java set the wires of the astronomicalexchange palpitating with the amazing intelligence of a huge outbreakof incandescent gas upon the planet. |
It had occurred towardsmidnight of the twelfth; and the spectroscope, to which he had atonce resorted, indicated a mass of flaming gas, chiefly hydrogen,moving with an enormous velocity towards this earth. |
This jet offire had become invisible about a quarter past twelve. |
He comparedit to a colossal puff of flame suddenly and violently squirted out ofthe planet, "as flaming gases rushed out of a gun". |
A singularly appropriate phrase it proved. |
Yet the next daythere was nothing of this in the papers except a little note in theDaily Telgraph, and the world went in ignorance of one of the gravestdangers that ever threatened the human race. |
I might not have heardof the eruption at all had I not met Ogilvy, the well-knownastronomer, at Ottershaw. |
He was immensely excited at the news, andin the excess of his feelings invited me up to take a turn with himthat night in a scrutiny of the red planet. |
In spite of all that has happened since, I still remember thatvigil very distinctly: the black and silent observatory, the shadowedlantern throwing a feeble glow upon the floor in the corner, thesteady ticking of the clockwork of the telescope, the little slit inthe roof--an oblong profundity with the stardust streaked across it. |
Ogilvy moved about, invisible but audible. |
Looking through thetelescope, one saw a circle of deep blue and the little round planetswimming in the field. |
It seemed such a little thing, so bright andsmall and still faintly marked with transverse stripes, and slightlyflattened from the perfect round. |
But so little it was, so silverywarm--a pin's-head of light! It was as if it quivered, but reallythis was the telescope vibrating with the activity of the clockworkthat kept the planet in view. |
As I watched, the planet seemed to grow larger and smaller and toadvance and recede, but that was simply that my eye was tired. |
Fortymillions of miles it was from us--more than forty millions of milesof void. |
Few people realise the immensity of vacancy in which thedust of the material universe swims. |
Near it in the field, I remember, were three faint points oflight, three telescopic stars infinitely remote, and all around itwas the unfathomable darkness of empty space. |
You know how thatblackness looks on a frosty starlight night in a telescope it seemsfar profounder. |
And invisible to me because it was so remote andsmall, flying swiftly and steadily towards me across that incredibledistance, drawing nearer every minute by so many thousands of miles,came the Thing they were sending us, the Thing that was to bring somuch struggle and calamity and death to the earth. |
I never dreamedof it then as I watched; no one on earth dreamed of that unerringmissile. |
That night, too, there was another jetting out of gas from thedistant planet. |
I saw it. |
A reddish flash at the edge, theslightest projection of the outline just as the chronometer struckmidnight; and at that I told Ogilvy and he took my place. |
The nightwas warm and I was thirsty, and I went, stretching my legs clumsilyand feeling my way in the darkness, to the little table where thesiphon stood, while Ogilvy exclaimed at the streamer of gas that cameout towards us. |
That night another invisible missile started on its way to theearth from Mars, just a second or so under twenty-four hours afterthe first one. |
I remember how I sat on the table there in theblackness, with patches of green and crimson swimming before my eyes. |
I wished I had a light to smoke by, little suspecting the meaning ofthe minute gleam I had seen and all that it would presently bring me. |
Olgivy watched till one, and then gave it up; and we lit the lanternand walked over to his house. |
Down below in the darkness wereOttershaw and Chertsey and all their hundreds of people, sleeping inpeace. |
He was full of speculation that night about the condition ofMars, and scoffed at the vulgar idea of its having inhabitants whowere signalling us. |
His idea was that meteorites might be falling ina heavy shower upon the planet, or that a huge volcanic explosion wasin progress. |
He pointed out to me how unlikely it was that organicevolution had taken the same direction in the two adjacent planets. |
"The chances against anything manlike on Mars are a million toone", he said. |
Hundreds of observers saw the flame that night and the nightafter about midnight, and again the night after; and so for tennights, a flame each night. |
Why the shots ceased after the tenth noone on earth has attempted to explain. |
It may be the gases of thefiring caused the Martians inconvenience. |
Dense clouds of smoke ordust, visible through a powerful telescope on earth as little grey,fluctuating patches, spread through the clearness of the planet'satmosphere and obscured its more familiar features. |
Even the daily papers woke up to the disturbances at last, andpopular notes appeared here, there, and everywhere concerning thevolcanoes upon Mars. |
The serio-comic periodical Punch, I remember,made a happy use of it in the political cartoon. |
And, allunsuspected, those missiles the Martians had fired at us drewearthward, rushing now at a pace of many miles a second through theempty gulf of space, hour by hour and day by day, nearer and nearer. |
It seems to me now almost incredibly wonderful that, with that swiftfate hanging over us, men could go about their petty concerns as theydid. |
I remember how jubilant Markham was at securing a newphotograph of the planet for the illustrated paper he edited in thosedays. |
People in these latter times scarcely realise the abundanceand enterprise of our nineteenth-century papers. |
For my own part, Iwas much occupied in learning to ride the bicycle, and busy upon aseries of papers discussing the fprobable developments of moral ideasas civilisation progressed. |
One night (the first missile then could scarcely have been10,000,000 miles away) I went for a walk with my wife. |
It wasstarlight, and I explained the Signs of the Zodiac to her, andpointed out Mars, a bright dot of light creeping zenithward, towardswhich so many telescopes were pointed. |
It was a warm night. |
Cominghome, a party of excursionists from Chertsey or Isleworth passed ussinging and playing music. |
There were lights in the upper windows ofthe houses as the people went to bed. |
From the railway station inthe distance came the sound of shunting trains, ringing and rumbling,softened almost into melody by the distance. |
My wife pointed out tome the brightness of the red, green, and yellow signal lights hangingin a framework against the sky. |
It seemed so safe and tranquil. |
THE WAR OF THE WORLDS -- Book 1 Chapter 2: The Falling StarThen came the night of the first falling star. |
It was seen early inthe morning, rushing over Winchester eastward, a line of flame highin the atmosphere. |
Hundreds must have seen it, and taken it for anordinary falling star. |
Albin described it as leaving a greenishstreak behind it that glowed for some seconds. |
Denning, our greatestauthority on meteorites, stated that the height of its firstappearance was about ninety or one hundred miles. |
It seemed to himthat it fell to earth about one hundred miles east of him. |
I was at home at that hour and writing in my study; and althoughmy French windows face towards Ottershaw and the blind was up (for Iloved in those days to look up at the night sky), I saw nothing ofit. |
Yet this strangest of all things that ever came to earth fromouter space must have fallen while I was sitting there, visible to mehad I only looked up as it passed. |
Some of those who saw its flightsay it travelled with a hissing sound. |
I myself heard nothing ofthat. |
Many people in Berkshire, Surrey, and Middlesex must have seenthe fall of it, and, at most, have thought that another meteorite haddescended. |
No one seems to have troubled to look for the fallen massthat night. |
But very early in the morning poor Ogilvy, who had seen theshooting star and who was persuaded that a meteorite lay somewhere onthe common between Horsell, Ottershaw, and Woking, rose early withthe idea of finding it. |
Find it he did, soon after dawn, and not farfrom the sand pits. |
An enormous hole had been made by the impact ofthe projectile, and the sand and gravel had been flung violently inevery direction over the heath, forming heaps visible a mile and ahalf away. |
The heather was on fire eastward, and a thin blue smokerose against the dawn. |
The Thing itself lay almost entirely buried in sand, amidst thescattered splinters of a fir tree it had shivered to fragments in itsdescent. |
The uncovered part had the appearance of a huge cylinder,caked over and its outline softened by a thick scaly dun-colouredincrustation. |
It had a diameter of about thirty yards. |
Heapproached the mass, surprised at the size and more so at the shape,since most meteorites are rounded more or less completely. |
It was,however, still so hot from its flight through the air as to forbidhis near approach. |
A stirring noise within its cylinder he ascribedto the unequal cooling of its surface; for at that time it had notoccurred to him that it might be hollow. |
He remained standing at the edge of the pit that the Thing hadmade for itself, staring at its strange appearance, astonishedchiefly at its unusual shape and colour, and dimly perceiving eventhen some evidence of design in its arrival. |
The early morning waswonderfully still, and the sun, just clearing the pine trees towardsWeybridge, was already warm. |
He did not remember hearing any birdsthat morning, there was certainly no breeze stirring, and the onlysounds were the faint movements from within the cindery cylinder. |
Hewas all alone on the common. |
Then suddenly he noticed with a start that some of the greyclinker, the ashy incrustation that covered the meteorite, wasfalling off the circular edge of the end. |
It was dropping off inflakes and raining down upon the sand. |
A large piece suddenly cameoff and fell with a sharp noise that brought his heart into hismouth. |
For a minute he scarcely realised what this meant, and, althoughthe heat was excessive, he clambered down into the pit close to thebulk to see the Thing more clearly. |
He fancied even then that thecooling of the body might account for this, but what disturbed thatidea was the fact that the ash was failing only from the end of thecylinder. |
And then he perceived that, very slowly, the circular top of thecylinder was rotating on its body. |
It was such a gradual movementthat he discovered it only through noticing that a black mark thathad been near him five minutes ago was now at the other side of thecircumference. |
Even then he scarcely understood what this indicated,until he heard a muffled grating sound and saw the black mark jerkforward an inch or so. |
Then the thing came upon him in a flash. |
Thecylinder was artificial--hollow--with an end that screwed out!Something within the cylinder was unscrewing the top! "Good heavens!" said Ogilvy. |
"There's a man in it--men in it!Half roasted to death! Trying to escape!" At once, with a quick mental leap, he linked the Thing with theflash upon Mars. |
The thought of the confined creature was so dreadful to him thathe forgot the heat, and went forward to the cylinder to help turn. |
But luckily the dull radiation arrested him before he could burn hishands on the still glowing metal. |
At that he stood irresolute for amoment, then turned, scrambled out of the pit, and set off runningwildly into Woking. |
The time then must have been somewhere about sixo'clock. |
He met a waggoner and tried to make him understand, but thetale he told and his appearance were so wild--his hat had fallen offin the pit--that the man simply drove on. |
He was equallyunsuccessful with the pot man who was just unlocking the doors of thepublic-house by Horsell Bridge. |
The fellow thought he was a lunaticat large and made an unsuccessful attempt to shut him into thetaproom. |
That sobered him a little; and when he saw Henderson, theLondon journalist, in his garden, he called over the palings and madehimself understood. |
"Henderson", he called, "you saw that shooting star last night?" "Well?" said Henderson "It's out on Horsell Common now". |
"Good Lord!" said Henderson. |
"Fallen meteorite! That's good". |
"But it's something more than a meteorite. |
It's a cylinder-- anartificial cylinder, man! And there's something inside". |
Henderson stood up with his spade in his hand. |
"What's that?" he said. |
He was deaf in one ear. |
Ogilvy told him all that he had seen. |
Henderson was a minute orso taking it in. |
Then he dropped his spade, snatched up his jacket,and came out into the road. |
The two men hurried back at once to thecommon, and found the cylinder still lying in the same position. |
Butnow the sounds inside had ceased, and a thin circle of bright metalshowed between the top and the body of the cylinder. |
Air was eitherentering or escaping at the rim with a thin, sizzling sound. |
They listened, rapped on the scaly burnt metal with a stick,and, meeting with no response, they both concluded the man or meninside must be insensible or dead. |
Of course the two were quite unable to do anything. |
Theyshouted consolation and promises, and went off back to the town againto get help. |
One can imagine them, covered with sand, excited anddisordered, running up the little street in the bright sunlight justas the shop folks were taking down their shutters and people wereopening their bedroom windows. |
Henderson went into the railwaystation at once, in order to telegraph the news to London. |
Thenewspaper articles had prepared men's minds for the reception of theidea. |
By eight o'clock a number of boys and unemployed men had alreadystarted for the common to see the "dead men from Mars". |
That was theform the story took. |
I heard of it first from my newspaper boy abouta quarter to nine when I went out to get my Daily Chronicle. |
I wasnaturally startled, and lost no time in going out and across theOttershaw bridge to the sand pits. |
THE WAR OF THE WORLDS -- Book 1 Chapter 3: On Horsell Common I found a little crowd of perhaps twenty people surrounding thehuge hole in which the cylinder lay. |
I have already described theappearance of that colossal bulk, embedded in the ground. |
The turfand gravel about it seemed charred as if by a sudden explosion. |
Nodoubt its impact had caused a flash of fire. |
Henderson and Ogilvywere not there. |
I think they perceived that nothing was to be donefor the present, and had gone away to breakfast at Henderson's house. |
There were four or five boys sitting on the edge of the pit,with their feet dangling, and amusing themselves until I stoppedthem--by throwing stones at the giant mass. |
After I had spoken tothem about it, they began playing at "touch" in and out of the groupof bystanders. |
Among these were a couple of cyclists, a jobbing gardener Iemployed sometimes, a girl carrying a baby, Gregg the butcher and hislittle boy, and two or three loafers and golf caddies who wereaccustomed to hang about the railway station. |
There was very littletalking. |
Few of the common people in England had anything but thevaguest astronomical ideas in those days. |
Most of them were standingquietly at the big tablelike end of the cylinder, which was still asOgilvy and Henderson had left it. |
I fancy the popular expectation ofa heap of charred corpses was disappointed at this inanimate bulk. |
Some went away while I was there, and other people came. |
I clamberedinto the pit and fancied I heard a faint movement under my feet. |
Thetop had certainly ceased to rotate. |
It was only when I got thus close to it that the strangeness ofthis object was at all evident to me. |
At the first glance it wasreally no more exciting than an overturned carriage or a tree blownacross the road. |
Not so much so, indeed. |
It looked like a rusty gasfloat. |
It required a certain amount of scientific education toperceive that the grey scale of the Thing was no common oxide, thatthe yellowish-white metal that gleamed in the crack between the lidand the cylinder had an unfamiliar hue. |
"Extraterrestrial" had nomeaning for most of the onlookers. |
At that time it was quite clear in my own mind that the Thinghad come from the planet Mars, but I judged it improbable that itcontained any living creature. |
I thought the unscrewing might beautomatic. |
In spite of Ogilvy, I still believed that there were menin Mars. |
My mind ran fancifully on the possibilities of itscontaining manuscript, on the difficulties in translation that mightarise, whether we should find coins and models in it, and so forth. |
Yet it was a little too large for assurance on this idea. |
I felt animpatience to see it opened. |
About eleven, as nothing seemedhappening, I walked back, full of such thought, to my home inMaybury. |
But I found it difficult to get to work upon my abstractinvestigations. |
In the afternoon the appearance of the common had altered verymuch. |
The early editions of the evening papers had startled Londonwith enormous headlines: A MESSAGE RECEIVED FROM MARS REMARKABLE STORY FROM WOKINGand so forth. |
In addition, Ogilvy's wire to the AstronomicalExchange had roused every observatory in the three kingdoms. |
There were half a dozen flies or more from the Woking stationstanding in the road by the sand pits, a basket-chaise from Chobham,and a rather lordly carriage. |
Besides that, there was quite a heapof bicycles. |
In addition, a large number of people must have walked,in spite of the heat of the day, from Woking and Chertsey, so thatthere was altogether quite a considerable crowd--one or two gailydressed ladies among the others. |
It was glaringly hot, not a cloud in the sky nor a breath ofwind, and the only shadow was that of the few scattered pine trees. |
The burning heather had been extinguished, but the level groundtowards Ottershaw was blackened as far as one could see, and stillgiving off vertical streamers of smoke. |
An enterprising sweet-stuffdealer in the Chobham Road had sent up his son with a barrow-load ofgreen apples and ginger beer. |
Going to the edge of the pit, I found it occupied by a group ofabout half a dozen men--Henderson, Ogilvy, and a tall, fair-hairedman that I afterwards learned was Stent, the Astronomer Royal, withseveral workmen, wielding spades and pickaxes. |
Stent was givingdirections in a clear, high-pitched voice. |
He was standing on thecylinder, which was now evidently much cooler; his face was crimsonand streaming with perspiration, and something seemed to haveirritated him. |
A large portion of the cylinder had been uncovered, though itslower end was still embedded. |
As soon as Ogilvy saw me among thestaring crowd on the edge of the pit he called to me to come down,and asked me if I would mind going over to see Lord Hilton, the lordof the manor. |
The growing crowd, he said, was becoming a serious impediment totheir excavations, especially the boys. |
They wanted a light railingput up, and help to keep the people back. |
He told me that a faintstirring was occasionally still audible within the case, but that theworkmen had failed to unscrew the top, as it afforded no grip tothem. |
The case appeared to be enormously thick, and it was possiblethat the faint sounds we heard represented a noisy tumult in theinterior. |
I was very glad to do as he asked, and so become one of theprivileged spectators within the contemplated enclosure. |
I failed tofind Lord Hilton at his house, but I was told he was expected fromLondon by the six o'clock train from Waterloo; and as it was thenabout a quarter past five, I went home, had some tea, and walked upto the station to waylay him. |
THE WAR OF THE WORLDS -- Book 1 Chapter 4: The Cylinder Opens When I returned to the common the sun was setting. |
Scatteredgroups were hurrying from the direction of Woking, and one or twopersons were returning. |
The crowd about the pit had increased, andstood out black against the lemon yellow of the sky--a couple ofhundred people, perhaps. |
There were raised voices, and some sort ofstruggle appeared to be going on about the pit. |
Strange imaginingspassed through my mind. |
As I drew nearer I heard Stent's voice: "Keep back! Keep back!" A boy came running towards me. |
"Its a movin'", he said to me as he passed; "a-screwin' anda-screwin' out. |
I don't like it. |
I'm a-goin' home, I am". |
I went on to the crowd. |
There were really, I should think, twoor three hundred people elbowing and jostling one another, the one ortwo ladies there being by no means the least active. |
"He's fallen in the pit!" cried some one. |
"Keep back!" said several. |
The crowd swayed a little, and I elbowed my way through. |
Everyone seemed greatly excited. |
I heard a peculiar humming sound fromthe pit. |
"I say!" said Ogilvy; "help keep these idiots back. |
We don'tknow what's in the confounded thing, you know!" I saw a young man, a shop assistant in Woking I believe he was,standing on the cylinder and trying to scramble out of the holeagain. |
The crowd had pushed him in. |
The end of the cylinder was being screwed but from within. |
Nearly two feet of shining screw projected. |
Somebody blunderedagainst me, and I narrowly missed being pitched onto the top of thescrew. |
I turned, and as I did so the screw must have come out, forthe lid of the cylinder fell upon the gravel with a ringingconcussion. |
I stuck my elbow into the person behind me, and turned myhead towards the Thing again. |
For a moment that circular cavityseemed perfectly black. |
I had the sunset in my eyes. |
I think everyone expected to see a man emerge--possiblysomething a little unlike us terrestrial men, but in all essentials aman. |
I know I did. |
But, looking, I presently saw something stirringwithin the shadow: greyish billowy movements, one above another, andthen two luminous disks--like eyes. |
Then something resembling alittle grey snake, about the thickness of a walking stick, coiled upout of the writhing middle, and wriggled in the air towards me--andthen another. |
A sudden chill came over me. |
There was a loud shriek from awoman behind. |
I half turned, keeping my eyes fixed upon the cylinderstill, from which other tentacles were now projecting, and beganpushing my way back from the edge of the pit. |
I saw astonishmentgiving place to horror on the faces of the people about me. |
I heardinarticulate exclamations on all sides. |
There was a general movementbackwards. |
I saw the shopman struggling still on the edge of thepit. |
I found myself alone, and saw the people on the other side ofthe pit running off, Stent among them. |
I looked again at thecylinder, and ungovernable terror gripped me. |
I stood petrified andstaring. |
A big greyish rounded bulk, the size, perhaps, of a bear, wasrising slowly and painfully out of the cylinder. |
As it bulged up andcaught the light, it glistened like wet leather. |
Two large dark-coloured eyes were regarding me steadfastly. |
Themass that framed them, the head of the thing, was rounded, and had,one might say, a face. |
There was a mouth under the eyes, the liplessbrim of which quivered and panted, and dropped saliva. |
The wholecreature heaved and pulsated convulsively. |
A lank tentacularappendage gripped the edge of the cylinder, another swayed in theair. |
Those who have never seen a living Martian can scarcely imaginethe strange horror of its appearance. |
The peculiar V-shaped mouthwith its pointed upper lip, the absence of brow ridges, the absenceof a chin beneath the wedgelike lower lip, the incessant quivering ofthis mouth, the Gorgon groups of tentacles, the tumultuous breathingof the lungs in a strange atmosphere, the evident heaviness andpainfulness of movement due to the greater gravitational energy ofthe earth--above all, the extraordinary intensity of the immenseeye--were at once vital, intense, inhuman, crippled and monstrous. |
There was something fungoid in the oily brown skin, something in theclumsy deliberation of the tedious movements unspeakably nasty. |
Evenat this first encounter, this first glimpse, I was overcome withdisgust and dread. |
Suddenly the monster vanished. |
It had toppled over the brim ofthe cylinder and fallen into the pit, with a thud like the fall of agreat mass of leather. |
I heard it give a peculiar thick cry, andforthwith another of these creatures appeared darkly in the deepshadow of the aperture. |
I turned and, running madly, made for the first group of trees,perhaps a hundred yards away; but I ran slantingly and stumbling, forI could not avert my face from these things. |
There, among some young pine trees and furze bushes, I stopped,panting, and waited further developments. |
The common round the sandpits was dotted with people, standing like myself in ahalf-fascinated terror, staring at these creatures, or rather at theheaped gravel at the edge of the pit in which they lay. |
And then,with a renewed horror, I saw a round, black object bobbing up anddown on the edge of the pit. |
It was the head of the shopman who hadfallen in, but showing as a little black object against the hotwestern sky. |
Now he got his shoulder and knee up, and again heseemed to slip back until only his head was visible. |
Suddenly hevanished, and I could have fancied a faint shriek had reached me. |
Ihad a momentary impulse to go back and help him that my fearsoverruled. |
Everything was then quite invisible, hidden by the deep pit andthe heap of sand that the fall of the cylinder had made. |
Anyonecoming along the road from Choban or Woking would have been amazed atthe sight--a dwindling multitude of perhaps a hundred people or morestanding in a great irregular circle, in ditches, behind bushes,behind gates and hedges, saying little to one another and that inshort, excited shouts, and staring, staring hard at a few heaps ofsand. |
The barrow of ginger beer stood, a queer derelict, blackagainst the burning sky, and in the sand pits was a row of desertedvehicles with their horses feeding out of nosebags or pawing theground. |
THE WAR OF THE WORLDS -- Book 1 Chapter 5: The Heat-Ray After the glimpse I had had of the Martians emerging from thecylinder in which they had come to the earth from their planet, akind of fascination paralysed my actions. |
I remained standingknee-deep in the heather, staring at the mound that hid them. |
I wasa battleground of fear and curiosity. |
I did not dare to go back towards the pit, but I felt apassionate longing to peer into it. |
I began walking, therefore, in abig curve, seeking some point of vantage and continually looking atthe sand heaps that hid these newcomers to our earth. |
Once a leashof thin black whips, like the arms of an octopus, flashed across thesunset and was immediately withdrawn, and afterwards a thin rod roseup, joint by joint, bearing at its apex a circular disk that spunwith a wobbling motion. |
What could be going on there? Most of the spectators had gathered in one or two groups--one alittle crowd towards Woking, the other a knot of people in thedirection of Chobham. |
Evidently they shared my mental conflict. |
There were few near me. |
One man I approached--he was, I perceived, aneighbour of mine, though I did not know his name-- and accosted. |
But it was scarcely a time for articulate conversation. |
"What ugly brutes!" he said. |
"Good God! What ugly brutes!" Herepeated this over and over again. |
"Did you see a man in the pit?" I said; but he made no answer tothat. |
We became silent, and stood watching for a time side by side,deriving, I fancy, a certain comfort in one another's company. |
ThenI shifted my position to a little knoll that gave me the advantage ofa yard or more of elevation, and when I looked for him presently hewas walking towards Woking. |
The sunset faded to twilight before anything further happened. |
The crowd far away on the left, towards Woking, seemed to grow, and Iheard now a faint murmur from it. |
The little knot of people towardsChobham dispersed. |
There was scarcely an intimation of movement fromthe pit. |
It was this, as much as anything, that gave people courage, andI suppose the new arrivals from Woking also helped to restoreconfidence. |
At any rate, as the dusk came on a slow, intermittentmovement upon the sand pits began, a movement that seemed to gatherforce as the stillness of the evening about the cylinder remainedunbroken. |
Vertical black figures in twos and threes would advance,stop, watch, and advance again, spreading out as they did so in athin irregular crescent that promised to enclose the pit in itsattenuated horns. |
I, too, on my side began to move towards the pit. |
Then I saw some cabmen and others had walked boldly into thesand pits, and heard the clatter of hoofs and the gride of wheels. |
Isaw a lad trundling off the barrow of apples. |
And then, withinthirty yards of the pit, advancing from the direction of Horsell, Inoted a little black knot of men, the foremost of whom was waving awhite flag. |
This was the Deputation. |
There had been a hasty consultation,and since the Martians were evidently, in spite of their repulsiveforms, intelligent creatures, it had been resolved to show them, byapproaching them with signals, that we too were intelligent. |
Flutter, flutter, went the flag, first to the right, then to theleft. |
It was too far for me to recognise anyone there, butafterwards I learned that Ogilvy, Stent, and Henderson were withothers in this attempt at communication. |
This little group had inits advance dragged inward, so to speak, the circumference of the nowalmost complete circle of people, and a number of dim black figuresfollowed it at discreet distances. |
Suddenly there was a flash of light, and a quantity of luminousgreenish smoke came out of the pit in three distinct puffs, whichdrove up, one after the other, straight into the still air. |
This smoke (or flame, perhaps, would be the better word for it)was so bright that the deep blue sky overhead and the hazy stretchesof brown common towards Chertsey, set with black pine trees, seemedto darken abruptly as these puffs arose, and to remain the darkerafter their dispersal. |
At the same time a faint hissing sound becameaudible. |
Beyond the pit stood the little wedge of people with the whiteflag at its apex, arrested by these phenomena, a little knot of smallvertical black shapes upon the black ground. |
As the green smokearose, their faces flashed out pallid green, and faded again as itvanished. |
Then slowly the hissing passed into a humming, into along, loud, droning noise. |
Slowly a humped shape rose out of thepit, and the ghost of a beam of light seemed to flicker out from it. |
Forthwith flashes of actual flame, a bright glare leaping fromone to another, sprang from the scattered group of men. |
It was as ifsome invisible jet impinged upon them and flashed into white flame. |
It was as if each man were suddenly and momentarily turned to fire. |
Then, by the light of their own destruction, I saw themstaggering and falling, and their supporters turning to run. |
I stood staring, not as yet realising that this was deathleaping from man to man in that little distant crowd. |
All I felt wasthat it was something very strange. |
An almost noiseless and blindingflash of light, and a man fell headlong and lay still; and as theunseen shaft of heat passed over them, pine trees burst into fire andevery dry furze bush became with one dull thud a mass of flames. |
Andfar away towards Knaphill I saw the flashes of trees and hedges andwooden buildings suddenly set alight. |
It was sweeping round swiftly and steadily, this flaming death,this invisible, inevitable sword of heat. |
I perceived it comingtowards me by the flashing bushes it touched, and was too astoundedand stupefied to stir. |
I heard the crackle of fire in the sand pitsand the sudden squeal of a horse that was as suddenly stilled. |
Thenit was as if an invisible yet intensely heated finger were drawnthrough the heather between me and the Martians, and all along acurving line beyond the sand pits the dark ground smoked andcrackled. |
Something fell with a crash far away to the left where theroad from Woking station opens out on the common. |
Forthwith thehissing and humming ceased, and the black, domelike object sankslowly out of sight into the pit. |
All this had happened with such swiftness that I had stoodmotionless, dumbfounded and dazzled by the flashes of light. |
Hadthat death swept through a full circle, it must inevitably have slainme in my surprise. |
But it passed and spared me, and left the nightabout me suddenly dark and unfamiliar. |
The undulating common seemed now dark almost to blackness,except where its roadways lay grey and pale under the deep blue skyof the early night. |
It was dark, and suddenly void of men. |
Overheadthe stars were mustering, and in the west the sky was still a pale,bright, almost greenish blue. |
The tops of the pine trees and theroofs of Horsell came out sharp and black against the westernafterglow. |
The Martians and their appliances were altogetherinvisible, save for that thin mast upon which their restless mirrorwobbled. |
Patches of bush and isolated trees here and there smokedand glowed still, and the houses towards Woking station were sendingup spires of flame into the stillness of the evening air. |
Nothing was changed save for that and a terrible astonishment. |
The little group of black specks with the flag of white had beenswept out of existence, and the stillness of the evening, so itseemed to me, had scarcely been broken. |
It came to me that I was upon this dark common, helpless,unprotected, and alone. |
Suddenly, like a thing falling upon me fromwithout, came--fear. |
With an effort I turned and began a stumbling run through theheather. |
The fear I felt was no rational fear, but a panic terror notonly of the Martians, but of the dusk and stillness all about me. |
Such an extraordinary effect in unmanning me it had that I ranweeping silently as a child might do. |
Once I had turned, I did notdare to look back. |
I remember I felt an extraordinary persuasion that I was beingplayed with, that presently, when I was upon the very verge ofsafety, this mysterious death--as swift as the passage of light--would leap after me from the pit about the cylinder and strike medown. |
THE WAR OF THE WORLDS -- Book 1 Chapter 6: The Heat-Ray in the Chobham Road It is still a matter of wonder how the Martians are able to slaymen so swiftly and so silently. |
Many think that in some way they areable to generate an intense heat in a chamber of practically absolutenon-conductivity. |
This intense heat they project in a parallel beamagainst any object they choose, by means of a polished parabolicmirror of unknown composition, much as the parabolic mirror of alighthouse projects a beam of light. |
But no one has absolutelyproved these details. |
However it is done, it is certain that a beamof heat is the essence of the matter. |
Heat, and invisible, insteadof visible, light. |
Whatever is combustible flashes into flame at itstouch, lead runs like water, it softens iron, cracks and melts glass,and when it falls upon water, incontinently that explodes into steam. |
That night nearly forty people lay under the starlight about thepit charred and distorted beyond recognition, and all night long thecommon from Horsell to Maybury was deserted and brightly ablaze. |
The news of the massacre probably reached Chobham, Woking, andOttershaw about the same time. |
In Woking the shops had closed whenthe tragedy happened, and a number of people, shop people and soforth, attracted by the stories they had heard, were walking over theHorsell Bridge and along the road between the hedges that runs out atlast upon the common. |
You may imagine the young people brushed upafter the labours of the day, and making this novelty, as they wouldmake any novelty, the excuse for walking together and enjoying atrivial flirtation. |
You may figure to yourself the hunt of voicesalong the road in the gloaming. |
As yet, of course, few people in Woking even knew that thecylinder had opened, though poor Henderson had sent a messenger on abicycle to the post office with a special wire to an evening paper. |
As these folks came out by twos and threes upon the open, theyfound little knots of people talking excitedly and peering at thespinning mirror over the sand pits, and the newcomers were, no doubt,soon infected by the excitement of the occasion. |
By half past eight, when the Deputation was destroyed, there mayhave been a crowd of three hundred people or more at this place,besides those who had left the road to approach the Martians nearer. |
There were three policemen too, one of whom was mounted, doing theirbest, under instructions from Stent, to keep the people back anddeter them from approaching the cylinder. |
There was some booing fromthose more thoughtless and excitable souls to whom a crowd is alwaysan occasion for noise and horse-play. |
Stent and Ogilvy, anticipating some possibilities of acollision, had telegraphed from Horsell to the barracks as soon asthe Martians emerged, for the help of a company of soldiers toprotect these strange creatures from violence. |
After that theyreturned to lead that ill-fated advance. |
The description of theirdeath, as it was seen by the crowd, tallies very closely with my ownimpressions: the three puffs of green smoke, the deep humming note,and the flashes of flame. |
But that crowd of people had a far narrower escape than mine. |
Only the fact that a hummock of heathery sand intercepted the lowerpart of the Heat-Ray saved them. |
Had the elevation of the parabolicmirror been a few yards higher, none could have lived to tell thetale. |
They saw the flashes and the men falling and an invisiblehand, as it were, lit the bushes as it hurried towards them throughthe twilight. |
Then, with a whistling note that rose above thedroning of the pit, the beam swung close over their heads, lightingthe tops of the beech trees that line the road, and splitting thebricks, smashing the windows, firing the window frames, and bringingdown in crumbling rain a portion of the gable of the house nearestthe corner. |
In the sudden thud, hiss, and glare of the igniting trees, thepanic-stricken crowd seems to have swayed hesitatingly for somemoments. |
Sparks and burning twigs began to fall into the road, andsingle leaves like puffs of flame. |
Hats and dresses caught fire. |
Then came a crying from the common. |
There were shrieks and shouts,and suddenly a mounted policeman came galloping through the confusionwith his hands clasped over his head, screaming. |
"They're coming!" a woman shrieked, and incontinently everyonewas turning and pushing at those behind, in order to clear their wayto Woking again. |
They must have bolted as blindly as a flock ofsheep. |
Where the road grows narrow and black between the high banksthe crowd jammed, and a desperate struggle occurred. |
All that crowddid not escape; three persons at least, two women and a little boy,were crushed and trampled there, and left to die amid the terror andthe darkness. |
THE WAR OF THE WORLDS -- Book 1 Chapter 7: How I Reached Home For my own part, I remember nothing of my flight except thestress of blundering against trees and stumbling through the heather. |
All about me gathered the invisible terrors of the Martians; thatpitiless sword of heat seemed whirling to and fro, flourishingoverhead before it descended and smote me out of life. |
I came intothe road between the crossroads and Horsell, and ran along this tothe crossroads. |
At last I could go no further; I was exhausted with the violenceof my emotion and of my flight, and I staggered and fell by thewayside. |
That was near the bridge that crosses the canal by thegasworks. |
I fell and lay still. |
I must have remained there some time. |
I sat up, strangely perplexed. |
For a moment, perhaps, I couldnot clearly understand how I came there. |
My terror had fallen fromme like a garment. |
My hat had gone, and my collar had burst awayfrom its fastener. |
A few minutes before, there had only been threereal things before me--the immensity of the night and space andnature, my own feebleness and anguish, and the near approach ofdeath. |
Now it was as if something turned over, and the point of viewaltered abruptly. |
There was no sensible transition from one state ofmind to the other. |
I was immediately the self of every day again--adecent ordinary citizen. |
The silent common, the impulse of myflight, the starting flames, were as if they had been in a dream. |
Iasked myself had these latter things indeed happened? I could notcredit it. |
I rose and walked unsteadily up the steep incline of the bridge. |
My mind was blank wonder. |
My muscles and nerves seemed drained oftheir strength. |
I dare say I staggered drunkenly. |
A head rose overthe arch, and the figure of a workman carrying a basket appeared. |
Beside him ran a little boy. |
He passed me, wishing me good night. |
Iwas minded to speak to him, but did not. |
I answered his greetingwith a meaningless mumble and went on over the bridge. |
Over the Maybury arch a train, a billowing tumult of white,firelit smoke, and a long caterpillar of lighted windows, went flyingsouth--clatter, clatter, clap, rap, and it had gone. |
A dim group ofpeople talked in the gate of one of the houses in the pretty littlerow of gables that was called Oriental Terrace. |
It was all so realand so familiar. |
And that behind me! It was frantic, fantastic!Such things, I told myself, could not be. |
Perhaps I am a man of exceptional moods. |
I do not know how farmy experience is common. |
At times I suffer from the strangest senseof detachment from myself and the world about me, I seem to watch itall from the outsider from somewhere inconceivably remote, out oftime, out of space, out of the stress and tragedy of it all. |
Thisfeeling was very strong upon me that night. |
Here was another side tomy dream. |
But the trouble was the blank incongruity of this serenity andthe swift death flying yonder, not two miles away. |
There was a noiseof business from the gasworks, and the electric lamps were allalight. |
I stopped at the group of people. |
"What news from the common?" said I. |
There were two men and a woman at the gate. |
"Eh?" said one of the men, turning. |
"What news from the common?" I said. |
"Ain't yer just been there?" asked the men. |
"People seem fair silly about the common", said the woman overthe gate. |
"What's it all abart?" "Haven't you heard of the men from Mars?" said I; "the creaturesfrom Mars?" "Quite enough", said the woman over the gate. |
"Thenks"; and allthree of them laughed. |
I felt foolish, and angry. |
I tried and found I could not tellthem what I had seen. |
They laughed again at my broken sentences. |
"You'll hear more yet", I said, and went on to my home. |
I startled my wife at the doorway, so haggard was I. |
I wentinto the dining room, sat down, drank some wine, and so soon as Icould collect myself sufficiently I told her the things I had seen. |
The dinner, which was a cold one, had already been served, andremained neglected on the table while I told my story. |
"There is one thing", I said, to allay the fears I had aroused;"they are the most sluggish things I ever saw crawl. |
They may keepthe pit and kill people who come near them, but they cannot get outof it. |
But the horror of them!" "Don't, dear!" said my wife, knitting her brows and putting herhand on mine. |
"Poor Ogilvy!" I said. |
"To think he may be lying dead there!" My wife at least did not find my experience incredible. |
When Isaw how deadly white her face was, I ceased abruptly. |
"They may come here", she said again and again. |
I pressed her to take wine, and tried to reassure her. |
"They can scarcely move", I said. |
I began to comfort her and myself by repeating all that Ogilvyhad told me of the impossibility of the Martians establishingthemselves on the earth. |
In particular I laid stress on thegravitational difficulty. |
On the surface of the earth the force ofgravity is three times what it is on the surface of Mars. |
A Martian,therefore, would weigh three times more on Mars, albeit his muscularstrength would be the same. |
His own body would be a cope of lead tohim. |
That, indeed, was the general opinion. |
Both The Times and theDaily Telegraph, for instance, insisted on it the next morning, andboth overlooked, just as I did, two obvious modifying influences. |
The atmosphere of the earth, we now know, contains far moreoxygen or far less argon (whichever way one likes to put it) thandoes Mars. |
The invigorating influences of this excess of oxygen uponthe Martians indisputably did much to counterbalance the increasedweight of their bodies. |
And, in the second place, we all overlookedthe fact that such mechanical intelligence as the Martian possessedwas quite able to dispense with muscular exertion at a pinch. |
But I did not consider these points at the time, and so myreasoning was dead against the chances of the invaders. |
With wineand food, the confidence of my own table, and the necessity ofreassuring my wife, I grew by insensible degrees courageous andsecure. |
"They have done a foolish thing", said I, fingering mywineglass. |
"They are dangerous because, no doubt, they are mad withterror. |
Perhaps they expected to find no living things-- certainlyno intelligent living things. |
"A shell in the pit", said I, "if the worst comes to the worst,will kill them all". |
The intense excitement of the events had no doubt left myperceptive powers in a state of erethism. |
I remember that dinnertable with extraordinary vividness even now. |
My dear wife's sweetanxious face peering at me from under the pink lamp shade, the whitecloth with its silver and glass table furniture--for in those dayseven philosophical writers had many little luxuries-- the crimsonpurple wine in my glass, are photographically distinct. |
At the endof it I sat, tempering nuts with a cigarette, regretting Ogilvy'srashness, and denouncing the shortsighted timidity of the Martians. |
So some respectable dodo in the Mauritius might have lorded itin his nest and discussed the arrival of that shipful of pitilesssailors in want of animal food. |
"We will peck them to deathtomorrow, my dear". |
I did not know it, but that was the last civilised dinner I wasto eat for very many strange and terrible days. |
THE WAR OF THE WORLDS -- Book 1 Chapter 8: Friday Night The most extraordinary thing to my mind, of all the strange andwonderful things that happened upon that Friday, was the dovetailingof the commonplace habits of our social order with the firstbeginnings of the series of events that was to topple that socialorder headlong. |
If on Friday night you had taken a pair of compassesand drawn a circle with a radius of five miles round the Woking sandpits, I doubt if you would have had one human being outside it,unless it were some relation of Stent or of the three or fourcyclists or London people lying dead on the common, whose emotions orhabits were at all affected by the new-comers. |
Many people had heardof the cylinder, of course, and talked about it in their leisure, butit certainly did not make the sensation that an ultimatum to Germanywould have done. |
In London that night poor Henderson's telegram describing thegradual unscrewing of the shot was judged to be a canard, and hisevening paper, after wiring for authentication from him and receivingno reply--the man was killed--decided not to print a special edition. |
Even within the five-mile circle the great majority of peoplewere inert. |
I have already described the behaviour of the men andwomen to whom I spoke. |
All over the district people were dining andsupping; working men were gardening after the labours of the day,children were being put to bed, young people were wandering throughthe lanes love-making, students sat over their books. |
Maybe there was a murmur in the village streets, a novel anddominant topic in the public-houses, and here and there a messenger,or even an eye-witness of the later occurrences, caused a whirl ofexcitement, a shouting, and a running to and fro; but for the mostpart the daily routine of working, eating, drinking, sleeping, wenton as it had done for countless years--as though no planet Marsexisted in the sky. |
Even at Woking station and Horsell and Chobhamthat was the case. |
In Woking junction, until a late hour, trains were stopping andgoing on, others were shunting on the sidings, passengers werealighting and waiting, and everything was proceeding in the mostordinary way. |
A boy from the town, trenching on Smith's monopoly,was selling papers with the afternoon's news. |
The ringing impact oftrucks, the sharp whistle of the engines from the junction, mingledwith their shouts of "Men from Mars!" Excited men came into thestation about nine o'clock with incredible tidings, and caused nomore disturbance than drunkards might have done. |
People rattlingLondonwards peered into the darkness outside the carriage windows,and saw only a rare, flickering, vanishing spark dance up from thedirection of Horsell, a red glow and a thin veil of smoke drivingacross the stars, and thought that nothing more serious than a heathfire was happening. |
It was only round the edge of the common thatany disturbance was perceptible. |
There were half a dozen villasburning on the Woking border. |
There were lights in all the houses onthe common side of the three villages, and the people there keptawake till dawn. |
A curious crowd lingered restlessly, people coming and going butthe crowd remaining, both on the Chobham and Horsell bridges. |
One ortwo adventurous souls, it was afterwards found, went into thedarkness and crawled quite near the Martians; but they neverreturned, for now and again a light-ray, like the beam of a warships'searchlight, swept the common, and the Heat-Ray was ready to follow. |
Save for such, that big area of common was silent and desolate, andthe charred bodies lay about on it all night under the stars, and allthe next day. |
A noise of hammering from the pit was heard by manypeople. |
So you have the state of things on Friday night. |
In the centre,sticking into the skin of our old planet Earth like a poisoned dart,was this cylinder. |
But the poison was scarcely working yet. |
Aroundit was a patch of silent common, smouldering in places, and with afew dark, dimly seen objects lying in contorted attitudes here andthere. |
Here and there was a burning bush or tree. |
Beyond was afringe of excitement, and farther than that fringe the inflammationhad not crept as yet. |
In the rest of the world the stream of lifestill flowed as it had flowed for immemorial years. |
The fever of warthat would presently clog vein and artery, deaden nerve and destroybrain, had still to develop. |
All night long the Martians were hammering and stirring,sleepless, indefatigable, at work upon the machines they were makingready, and ever and again a puff of greenish-white smoke whirled upto the starlit sky. |
About eleven a company of soldiers came through Horsell, anddeployed along the edge of the common to form a cordon. |
Later asecond company marched through Chobham to deploy on the north side ofthe common. |
Several officers from the Inkerman barracks had been onthe common earlier in the day, and one, Major Eden, was reported tobe missing. |
The colonel of the regiment came to the Chobham bridgeand was busy questioning the crowd at midnight. |
The militaryauthorities were certainly alive to the seriousness of the business. |
About eleven, the next morning's papers were able to say, a squadronof hussars, two Maxims, and about four hundred men of the Cardiganregiment started from Aldershot. |
A few seconds after midnight the crowd in the Chertsey road,Woking, saw a star fall from heaven into the pine woods to thenorthwest. |
It had a greenish colour, and caused a silent brightnesslike summer lightning. |
This was the second cylinder. |
THE WAR OF THE WORLDS -- Book 1 Chapter 9: The Fighting Begins Saturday lives in my memory as a day of suspense. |
It was a dayof lassitude too, hot and close, with, I am told, a rapidlyfluctuating barometer. |
I had slept but little, though my wife hadsucceeded in sleeping, and I rose early. |
I went into my gardenbefore breakfast and stood listening, but towards the common therewas nothing stirring but a lark. |
The milkman came as usual. |
I heard the rattle of his chariot,and I went round to the side gate to ask the latest news. |
He told methat during the night the Martians had been surrounded by troops, andthat guns were expected. |
Then--a familiar, reassuring note--I heard a train runningtowards Woking. |
"They aren't to be killed", said the milkman, "if that canpossibly be avoided". |
I saw my neighbour gardening, chatted with him for a time, andthen strolled in to breakfast. |
It was a most unexceptional morning. |
My neighbour was of opinion that the troops would be able to captureor to destroy the Martians during the day. |
"Its a pity they make themselves so unapproachable", he said. |
"It would be curious to know how they live on another planet; wemight learn a thing or two". |
He came up to the fence and extended a handful of strawberries,for his gardening was as generous as it was enthusiastic. |
At thesame time he told me of the burning of the pine woods about theByfleet Golf Links. |
"They say", said he, "that there's another of those blessedthings fallen there--number two. |
But one's enough, surely. |
Thislot'll cost the insurance people a pretty penny before everything'ssettled". |
He laughed with an air of the greatest good humour as hesaid this. |
The woods, he said, were still burning, and pointed out ahaze of smoke to me. |
"They will be hot under foot for days, onaccount of the thick soil of pine needles and turf", he said, andthen grew serious over "poor Ogilvy". |
After breakfast, instead of working, I decided to walk downtowards the common. |
Under the railway bridge I found a group ofsoldiers--sappers, I think, men in small round caps, dirty redJackets unbuttoned, and showing their blue shirts, dark trousers, andboots coming to the calf. |
They told me no one was allowed over thecanal, and, looking along the road towards the bridge, I saw one ofthe Gardigan men standing sentinel there. |
I talked with thesesoldiers for a time; I told them of my sight of the Martians on theprevious evening. |
None of them had seen the Martians, and they hadbut the vaguest ideas of them, so that they plied me with questions. |
They said that they did not know who had authorised the movements ofthe troops; their idea was that a dispute had arisen at the HorseGuards. |
The ordinary sapper is a great deal better educated than thecommon soldier, and they discussed the peculiar conditions of thepossible fight with some acuteness. |
I described the Heat-Ray tothem, and they began to argue among themselves. |
"Crawl up under cover and rush 'em, say I", said one. |
"Get aht!" said another. |
"What's cover against this 'ere 'eat?Sticks to cook yer! What we got to do is to go as near as theground'll let us, and then drive a trench". |
"Blow yer trenches! You always want trenches; you ought to ha'been born a rabbit, Snippy". |
" 'Ain't they got any necks, then?" said a third, abruptly--alittle, contemplative, dark man, smoking a pipe. |
I repeated my description. |
"Octopuses", said he, "that's what I calls `em. |
Talk aboutfishers of men--fighters of fish it is this time!" "It ain't no murder killing beasts like that", said the firstspeaker. |
"Why not shell the darned things strite off and finish 'em?"said the little dark man. |
"You carn tell what they might do". |
"Where's your shells?" said the first speaker. |
"There ain't notime. |
Do it in a rush, that's my tip, and do it at once". |
So they discussed it. |
After a while I left them, and went on tothe railway station to get as many morning papers as I could. |
But I will not weary the reader with a description of that longmorning and of the longer afternoon. |
I did not succeed in getting aglimpse of the common, for even Horsell and Chobham church towerswere in the hands of the military authorities. |
The soldiers Iaddressed didn't know anything; the officers were mysterious as wellas busy. |
I found people in the town quite secure again in thepresence of the military, and I heard for the first time fromMarshall, the tobacconist, that his son was among the dead on thecommon. |
The soldiers had made the people on the outskirts of Horselllock up and leave their houses. |
I got back to lunch about two, very tired, for, as I have said,the day was extremely hot and dull; and in order to refresh myself Itook a cold bath in the afternoon. |
About half past four I went up tothe railway station to get an evening paper, for the morning papershad contained only a very inaccurate description of the killing ofScent, Henderson, Ogilvy, and the others. |
But there was little Ididn't know. |
The Martians did not show an inch of themselves. |
Theyseemed busy in their pit, and there was a sound of hammering and analmost continuous streamer of smoke. |
Apparently they were busygetting ready for a struggle. |
"Fresh attempts have been made tosignal, but without success", was the stereotyped formula of thepapers. |
A sapper told me it was done by a man in a ditch with a flagon a long pole. |
The Martians took as much notice of such advances aswe should of the lowing of a cow. |
I must confess the sight of all this armament, all thispreparation, greatly excited me. |
My imagination became belligerent,and defeated the invaders in a dozen striking ways; something of myschoolboy dreams of battle and heroism came back. |
It hardly seemed afair fight to me at that time. |
They seemed very helpless in that pitof theirs. |
About three o'clock there began the thud of a gun at measuredintervals from Chertsey or Addlerstone. |
I learned that thesmouldering pine wood into which the second cylinder had fallen wasbeing shelled, in the hope of destroying that object before itopened. |
It was only about five, however, that a field gun reachedChobham for use against the first body of Martians. |
About six in the evening, as I sat at tea with my wife in thesummerhouse talking vigorously about the battle that was loweringupon us, I heard a muffled detonation from the common, andimmediately after a gust of firing. |
Close on the heels of that camea violent, rattling crash, quite close to us, that shook the ground;and, starting out upon the lawn, I saw the tops of the trees aboutthe Oriental College burst into smoky red flame, and the tower of thelittle church beside it slide down into ruin. |
The pinnacle of themosque had vanished, and the roof line of the college itself lookedas if a hundred-ton gun had been at work upon it. |
One of ourchimneys cracked as if a shot had hit it, flew, and a piece of itcame clattering down the tiles and made a heap of broken redfragments upon the flower bed by my study window. |
I and my wife stood amazed. |
Then I realised that the crest ofMaybury Hill must be within range of the Martians' Heat-Ray now thatthe college was cleared out of the way. |
At that I gripped my wife's arm, and without ceremony ran herout into the road. |
Then I fetched out the servant, telling her Iwould go upstairs myself for the box she was clamouring for. |
"We can't possibly stay here", I said; and as I spoke the firingreopened for a moment upon the common. |
"But where are we to go?" said my wife in terror. |
I thought, perplexed. |
Then I remembered her cousins atLeatherhead. |
"Leatherhead!" I shouted above the sudden noise. |
She looked away from me downhill. |
The people were coming out oftheir houses, astonished. |
"How are we to get to Leatherhead?" she said. |
Down the hill I saw a bevy of hussars ride under the railwaybridge; three galloped through the open gates of the Orientalcollege; two others dismounted, and began running from house tohouse. |
The sun, shining through the smoke that drove up from thetops of the trees, seemed blood red, and threw an unfamiliar luridlight upon everything. |
"Stop here", said I; "you are safe here"; and I started off atonce for the Spotted Dog, for I knew the landlord had a horse and dogcart. |
I ran, for I perceived that in a moment everyone upon thisside of the hill would be moving. |
I found him in his bar, quiteunaware of what was going on behind his house. |
A man stood with hisback to me, talking to him. |
"I must have a pound", said the landlord, "and I've no one todrive it". |
"I'll give you two", said I, over the stranger's shoulder. |
"What for?" "And I'll bring it back by midnight", I said. |
"Lord!" said the landlord; "what's the hurry? I'm selling mybit of a pig. |
Two pounds, and you bring it back? What's going onnow?" I explained hastily that I had to leave my home, and so securedthe dog cart. |
At the time it did not seem to me nearly so urgentthat the landlord should leave his. |
I took care to have the cartthere and then, drove it off down the road, and, leaving it in chargeof my wife and servant, rushed into my house and packed a fewvaluables, such plate as we had, and so forth. |
The beech trees belowthe house were burning while I did this, and the palings up the roadglowed red. |
While I was occupied in this way, one of the dismountedhussars came running up. |
He was going from house to house, warningpeople to leave. |
He was going on as I came out of my front door,lugging my treasures, done up in a tablecloth. |
I shouted after him: "What news?" He turned, stared, bawled something about "crawling out in athing like a dish cover", and ran on to the gate of the house at thecrest. |
A sudden whirl of black smoke driving across the road hid himfor a moment. |
I ran to my neighbour's door and rapped to satisfymyself of what I already knew, that his wife had gone to London withhim and had locked up their house. |
I went in again, according to mypromise, to get my servant's box, lugged it out, clapped it besideher on the tail of the dog cart, and then caught the reins and jumpedup into the driver's seat beside my wife. |
In another moment we wereclear of the smoke and noise, and spanking down the opposite slope ofMaybury Hill towards Old Woking. |
In front was a quiet, sunny landscape, a wheat field ahead oneither side of the road, and the Maybury Inn with its swinging sign. |
I saw the doctor's cart ahead of me. |
At the bottom of the hill Iturned my head to look at the hillside I was leaving. |
Thickstreamers of black smoke shot with threads of red fire were drivingup into the still air, and throwing dark shadows upon the greentreetops eastward. |
The smoke already extended far away to the eastand west--to the Byfleet pine woods eastward, and to Woking on thewest. |
The road was dotted with people running towards us. |
And veryfaint now, but very distinct through the hot, quiet air, one heardthe whirr of a machine-gun that, was presently stilled, and anintermittent cracking of rifles. |
Apparently the Martians weresetting fire to everything within range of their Heat-Ray. |
I am not an expert driver, and I had immediately to turn myattention to the horse. |
When I looked back again the second hill hadhidden the black smoke. |
I slashed the horse with the whip, and gavehim a loose rein until Woking and Send lay between us and thatquivering tumult. |
I overtook and passed the doctor between Wokingand Send. |
THE WAR OF THE WORLDS -- Book 1 Chapter 10: In the Storm Leatherhead is about twelve miles from Maybury Hill. |
The scentof hay was in the air through the lush meadows beyond Pyrford, andthe hedges on either side were sweet and gay with multitudes ofdog-roses. |
The heavy firing that had broken out while we weredriving down Maybury Hill ceased as abruptly as it began, leaving theevening very peaceful and still. |
We got to Leatherhead withoutmisadventure about nine o'clock, and the horse had an hour's restwhile I took supper with my cousins and commended my wife to theircare. |
My wife was curiously silent throughout the drive, and seemedoppressed with forebodings of evil. |
I talked to her reassuringly,pointing out that the Martians were tied to the pit by sheerheaviness, and at the utmost could but crawl a little out of it; butshe answered only in monosyllables. |
Had it not been for my promiseto the innkeeper, she would, I think, have urged me to stay inLeatherhead that night. |
Would that I had! Her face, I remember, wasvery white as we parted. |
For my own part, I had been feverishly excited all day. |
Something very like the war fever that occasionally runs through acivilised community had got into my blood and in my heart I was notso very sorry that I had to return to Maybury that night. |
I was evenafraid that that last fusillade I had heard might mean theextermination of our invaders from Mars. |
I can best express my stateof mind by saying that I wanted to be in at the death. |
It was nearly eleven when I started to return. |
The night wasunexpectedly dark; to me, walking out of the lighted passage of mycousins' house, it seemed indeed black, and it was as hot and closeas the day. |
Overhead the clouds were driving fast, albeit not abreath stirred the shrubs about us. |
My cousins' man lit both lamps. |
Happily, I knew the road intimately. |
My wife stood in the light ofthe doorway, and watched me until I jumped up into the dog cart. |
Then abruptly she turned and went in, leaving my cousins side by sidewishing me good hap. |
I was a little depressed at first, with the contagion of mywife's fears, but very soon my thoughts reverted to the Martians. |
Atthat time I was absolutely in the dark as to the course of theevening's fighting. |
I did not know even the circumstances that hadprecipitated the conflict. |
As I came through Ockham (for that wasthe way I returned, and not through Send and Old Woking) I saw alongthe western horizon a blood-red glow, which, as I drew nearer, creptslowly up the sky. |
The driving clouds of the gathering thunderstormmingled there with masses of black and red smoke. |
Ripley Street was deserted, and except for a lighted window orso the village showed not a sign of life; but I narrowly escaped anaccident at the corner of the road to Pyrford, where a knot of peoplestood with their backs to me. |
They said nothing to me as I passed. |
I do not know what they knew of the things happening beyond the hill,nor do I know if the silent houses I passed on my way were sleepingsecurely, or deserted and empty, or harassed and watching against theterror of the night. |
From Ripley until I came through Pyrford I was in the valley ofthe Wey, and the red glare was hidden from me. |
As I ascended thelittle hill beyond Pyrford Church the glare came into view again, andthe trees about me shivered with the first intimation of the stormthat was upon me. |
Then I heard midnight pealing out from PyrfordChurch behind me, and then came the silhouette of Maybury Hill, withits treetops and roofs black and sharp against the red. |
Even as I beheld this a lurid green glare lit the road about meand showed the distant woods towards Addlestone. |
I felt a tug at thereins. |
I saw that the driving clouds had been pierced as it were bya thread of green fire, suddenly lighting their confusion and fallinginto the field to my left. |
It was the third falling star! Close on its apparition, and blindingly violet by contrast,danced out the first lightning of the gathering storm, and thethunder burst like a rocket overhead. |
The horse took the bit betweenhis teeth and bolted. |
A moderate incline runs towards the foot of Maybury Hill, anddown this we clattered. |
Once the lightning had begun, it went on inas rapid a succession of flashes as I have ever seen. |
Thethunderclaps, treading one on the heels of another and with a strangecrackling accompaniment, sounded more like the working of a giganticelectric machine than the usual detonating reverberations. |
Theflickering light was blinding and confusing, and a thin hail smotegustily at my face as I drove down the slope. |
At first I regarded little but the road before me, and thenabruptly my attention was arrested by something that was movingrapidly down the opposite slope of Maybury Hill. |
At first I took itfor the wet roof of a house, but one flash following another showedit to be in swift rolling movement. |
It was an elusive vision--amoment of bewildering darkness, and then, in a flash like daylight,the red masses of the Orphanage near the crest of the hill, the greentops of the pine trees, and this problematical object came out clearand sharp and bright. |
And this Thing I saw! How can I describe it? A monstroustripod, higher than many houses, striding over the young pine trees,and smashing them aside in its career; a walking engine of glitteringmetal, striding now across the heather; articulate ropes of steeldangling from it, and the clattering tumult of its passage minglingwith the riot of the thunder. |
A flash, and it came out vividly,heeling over one way with two feet in the air, to vanish and reappearalmost instantly as it seemed, with the next flash, a hundred yardsnearer. |
Can you imagine a milking stool tilted and bowled violentlyalong the ground? That was the impression those instant flashesgave. |
But instead of a milking stool imagine it a great body ofmachinery on a tripod stand. |
Then suddenly the trees in the pine wood ahead of me wereparted, as brittle reeds are parted by a man thrusting through them;they were snapped off and driven headlong, and a second huge tripodappeared, rushing, as it seemed, headlong towards me. |
And I wasgalloping hard to meet it! At the sight of the second monster mynerve went altogether. |
Not stopping to look again, I wrenched thehorse's head hard round to the right, and in another moment the dogcart had heeled over upon the horse; the shafts smashed noisily, andI was flung sideways and fell heavily into a shallow pool of water. |
I crawled out almost immediately, and crouched, my feet still inthe water, under a clump of furze. |
The horse lay motionless (hisneck was broken, poor brute!) and by the lightning flashes I saw theblack bulk of the overturned dog cart and the silhouette of the wheelstill spinning slowly. |
In another moment the colossal mechanism wentstriding by me, and passed uphill towards Pyrford. |
Seen nearer, the Thing was incredibly strange, for it was nomere insensate machine driving on its way. |
Machine it was, with aringing metallic pace, and long, flexible, glittering tentacles (oneof which gripped a young pine tree) swinging and rattling about itsstrange body. |
It picked its road as it went striding along, and thebrazen hood that surmounted it moved to and fro with the inevitablesuggestion of a head looking about. |
Behind the main body was a hugemass of white metal like a gigantic fisherman's basket, and puffs ofgreen smoke squirted out from the joints of the limbs as the monsterswept by me. |
And in an instant it was gone. |
So much I saw then, all vaguely for the flickering of thelightning, in blinding highlights and dense black shadows. |
As it passed it set up an exultant deafening howl that drownedthe thunder--"Aloo! Aloo!"--and in another minute it was with itscompanion, half a mile away, stooping over something in the field. |
Ihave no doubt this Thing in the field was the third of the tencylinders they had fired at us from Mars. |
For some minutes I lay there in the rain and darkness watching,by the intermittent light, these monstrous beings of metal movingabout in the distance over the hedge tops. |
A thin hail was nowbeginning, and as it came and went their figures grew misty and thenflashed into clearness again. |
Now and then came a gap in thelightning, and the night swallowed them up. |
I was soaked with hail above and puddle water below. |
It wassome time before my blank astonishment would let me struggle up thebank to a drier position, or think at all of my imminent peril. |
Not far from me was a little one-roomed squatter's hut of wood,surrounded by a patch of potato garden. |
I struggled to my feet atlast, and, crouching and making use of every chance of cover, I madea run for this. |
I hammered at the door, but I could not make thepeople hear (if there were any people inside), and after a time Idesisted, and, availing myself of a ditch for the greater part of theway, succeeded in crawling, unobserved by these monstrous machines,into the pine wood towards Maybury. |
Under cover of this I pushed on, wet and shivering now, towardsmy own house. |
I walked among the trees trying to find the footpath. |
It was very dark indeed in the wood, for the lightning was nowbecoming infrequent, and the hail, which was pouring down in atorrent, fell in columns through the gaps in the heavy foliage. |
If I had fully realised the meaning of all the things I had seenI should have immediately worked my way round through Byfleet toStreet Cobham, and so gone back to rejoin my wife at Leatherhead. |
But that night the strangeness of things about me, and my physicalwretchedness, prevented me, for I was bruised, weary, wet to theskin, deafened and blinded by the storm. |
I had a vague idea of going on to my own house, and that was asmuch motive as I had. |
I staggered through the trees, fell into aditch and bruised my knees against a plant, and finally splashed outinto the lane that ran down from the College Arms. |
I say splashed,for the storm water was sweeping the sand down the hill in a muddytorrent. |
There in the darkness a man blundered into me and sent mereeling back. |
He gave a cry of terror, sprang sideways, and rushed on before Icould gather my wits sufficiently to speak to him. |
So heavy was thestress of the storm just at this place that I had the hardest task towin my way up the hill. |
I went close up to the fence on the left andworked my way along its palings. |
Near the top I stumbled upon something soft, and, by a flash oflightning, saw between my feet a heap of black broadcloth and a pairof boots. |
Before I could distinguish clearly how the man lay, theflicker of light had passed. |
I stood over him waiting for the nextflash. |
When it came, I saw that he was a sturdy man, cheaply but notshabbily dressed; his head was bent under his body, and he laycrumpled up close to the fence, as though he had been flung violentlyagainst it. |
Overcoming the repugnance natural to one who had never beforetouched a dead body, I stooped and turned him over to feel for hisheart. |
He was quite dead. |
Apparently his neck had been broken. |
Thelightning flashed for a third time, and his face leaped upon me. |
Isprang to my feet. |
It was the landlord of the Spotted Dog, whoseconveyance I had taken. |
I stepped over him gingerly and pushed on up the hill. |
I mademy way by the police station and the College Arms towards my ownhouse. |
Nothing was burning on the hillside, though from the commonthere still came a red glare and a rolling tumult of ruddy smokebeating up against the drenching hail. |
So far as I could see by theflashes, the houses about me were mostly uninjured. |
By the CollegeArms a dark heap lay in the road. |
Down the bad towards Maybury Bridge there were voices and thesound of feet, but I had not the courage to shout or to go to them. |
I let myself in with my latchkey, closed, locked and bolted the door,staggered to the foot of the staircase, and sat down. |
My imaginationwas full of those striding metallic monsters, and of the dead bodysmashed against the fence. |
I crouched at the foot of the staircase with my back to thewall, shivering violently. |
THE WAR OF THE WORLDS -- Book 1 Chapter 11: At the Window I have already said that my storms of emotion have a trick ofexhausting themselves. |
After a time I discovered that I was cold andwet, and with little pools of water about me on the stair carpet. |
Igot up almost mechanically, vent into the dining room and drank somewhiskey, and then I was moved to change my clothes. |
After I had done that I went upstairs to my study, but why I didso I do not know. |
The window of my study looks over the trees andthe railway towards Horsell Common. |
In the hurry of our departurethis window had been left open. |
The passage was dark, and, bycontrast with the picture the window frame enclosed, the side of theroom seemed impenetrably dark. |
I stopped short in the doorway. |
The thunderstorm had passed. |
The towers of the Oriental Collegeand the pine trees about it had gone, and very far away, lit by avivid red glare, the common about the sand pits was visible. |
Acrossthe light, huge black shapes, grotesque and strange, moved busily toand fro. |
It seemed indeed as if the whole country in that direction wason fire--a broad hillside set with minute tongues of flame, swayingand writhing with the gusts of the dying storm, and throwing a redreflection upon the cloud scud above. |
